
https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Car+Evaluation



Car Evaluation Data Set 
Download: Data Folder, Data Set Description

Abstract: Derived from simple hierarchical decision model, this database may be useful for testing constructive induction and structure discovery methods.


Data Set Characteristics:  

Multivariate

Number of Instances:

1728

Area:

N/A

Attribute Characteristics:

Categorical

Number of Attributes:

6

Date Donated

1997-06-01

Associated Tasks:

Classification

Missing Values?

No

Number of Web Hits:

961498


Source:

Creator: 

Marko Bohanec 

Donors: 

1. Marko Bohanec (marko.bohanec '@' ijs.si) 
2. Blaz Zupan (blaz.zupan '@' ijs.si)


Data Set Information:

Car Evaluation Database was derived from a simple hierarchical decision model originally developed for the demonstration of DEX, M. Bohanec, V. Rajkovic: Expert system for decision making. Sistemica 1(1), pp. 145-157, 1990.). The model evaluates cars according to the following concept structure: 

CAR car acceptability 
. PRICE overall price 
. . buying buying price 
. . maint price of the maintenance 
. TECH technical characteristics 
. . COMFORT comfort 
. . . doors number of doors 
. . . persons capacity in terms of persons to carry 
. . . lug_boot the size of luggage boot 
. . safety estimated safety of the car 

Input attributes are printed in lowercase. Besides the target concept (CAR), the model includes three intermediate concepts: PRICE, TECH, COMFORT. Every concept is in the original model related to its lower level descendants by a set of examples (for these examples sets see [Web Link]). 

The Car Evaluation Database contains examples with the structural information removed, i.e., directly relates CAR to the six input attributes: buying, maint, doors, persons, lug_boot, safety. 

Because of known underlying concept structure, this database may be particularly useful for testing constructive induction and structure discovery methods. 


Attribute Information:

Class Values: 

unacc, acc, good, vgood 

Attributes: 

buying: vhigh, high, med, low. 
maint: vhigh, high, med, low. 
doors: 2, 3, 4, 5more. 
persons: 2, 4, more. 
lug_boot: small, med, big. 
safety: low, med, high. 


Relevant Papers:

M. Bohanec and V. Rajkovic: Knowledge acquisition and explanation for multi-attribute decision making. In 8th Intl Workshop on Expert Systems and their Applications, Avignon, France. pages 59-78, 1988. 
[Web Link] 

B. Zupan, M. Bohanec, I. Bratko, J. Demsar: Machine learning by function decomposition. ICML-97, Nashville, TN. 1997 (to appear) 
[Web Link]

